So we had this one issue before, which
I just think is just a not an us issue.
I think it is more of a either
IntelliSense slash TypeScript issue slash
whatever issue, which is,
we do know that we could take a color and
do that slash syntax to get opacity of it,
so like doing slash 30.
However, despite the fact that I had
never tried to do slash current and
then it had at one point recommended, you
can do one of these, these aren't real.
When you try it for
the very first time live streaming
you get embarrassed by things.
But the syntax for a color and
during that slash to get
the opacity is very real,
just not on current, right.
And it makes sense to me because if
you look at what the slash 30 does,
is it takes that hex value makes
it an RGB a and puts a 0.3.
And I don't know how you
would do current which is
not like if you check out big
current that is literally
a CSS property right that
is a CSS thing that you
couldn't make an RGBA
because it's a value.
So I think tailwind maybe the types of
the IntelliSense thought I could do it but
it couldn't.
So that's however, I could theoretically
set a VGA opacity to 60 and
get the same effect, right?
But I do need to do it in two
statements in this case, right?
So we all learned that together the hard
way, not my favorite way to learn about
a Edge cases and bugs and the frameworks
that I use but you know we're here for it.
Cool, so we talked about a lot of these
and like I will leave most of these
as an exercise to the reader there
are even more than this as well.
And like I said, there are other ones that
are not related to stuff like form state,
right?
There is first of type, like a bunch
of the other pseudo selectors from CSS.
Roughly speaking, if it is in CSS,
it is in Tailwind with one caveat,
which is, if it is really in CSS,
right, if it has wide browser support.
There are certain things we're going to
see a little bit later that you can't
technically do,
not because Tailwind can't do them but
because like browser support isn't there,
so tailwind chooses not to do them.
Could one either build a plugin and
some post CSS and or
make some choices around it?
Absolutely, and
while we're talking about like, yeah,
at least community plugins in this case,
right, we can say,
if we go to the tailwind
site we go to the docs.
There have been and
are in the past official plugins.
And a lot of these official plugins
are ones that use polyfills.
Like container queries I
think now has support.
And aspect ratio I believe was
in there at one point as well.
But now it's got wide enough support
it can actually can rely on the CSS.
So a lot of times for
things that are kind of their thing,
they're very much like we see in
JavaScript and TypeScript with decorators.
Right, where it's like there are things
that once they hit stage three,
it's maybe okay to polyfill them
because the spec isn't gonna change but
they don't have the wide
browser support yet.
So in those cases, if one needed,
the latest and greatest future CSS stuff,
then, theoretically some combination
of perhaps a post CSS plugin and
or a TypeScript or
tailwind plugin would get you there too.
But with all that stuff, there's a certain
level of risk involved, right, and
so, yeah.
So we've got all of these like I said,
some of them will show up later.
Some of them I'm going to leave as,
like, an exercise for the reader,
is it really worth our time to get
into the details of styling something,
an indeterminate checkbox?
Probably not, right?
You can take a lucky guess
what out-of-range and
in-range does on a range slider,
all right.
These are all things they again these
are not they we get tailwind variants for
them so we can use them but
they are effectively just the same
as the pseudo class, right?
If you want to know how
to use them what they do.
That said, there are a bunch of
little things that we can do,
that again are all CSS effectively,
they're just things that Tailwind
tends to make really easy for us.
And so we use some very simple variants
when we were still on our form before, but
we still have some little weirdities.
If I scroll in, you can kinda see
that I get like the kind of MacOS
glow around my input field which
looks a little bit weird and,
I will say that over the years, MacOS
has toned it down a little bit, right.
I am old enough to remember
when my calendar app smells of
rich mahogany and
looks like fine leather bound volumes.
And so that's the amount.
And I actually have mine set to graphite,
so
you might have a little more
of a bluey hue to yours.
And maybe we don't want that, right?
And so we can switch it to outline none.
And you can see my border changes
color a little bit on this one.
Cuz I have, if you look,
I've got some of these variants.
I've got border purple and
I've got I got focus where we
make it a little bit darker.
So focus is when it's focused, right?
And doing that outline,
none will get rid of the OS
level like colors and
stuff along those lines.
And so if you want something where
you kind of looks more like you want,
you've got some little niceties that
you can bring in there as well.
There's also the ring
set of classes as well.
And so this gives you the outline
none will allow you to take it away.
And then ring kind of gives you
something kind of similar where I
can set it to purple on focused and
see it in there as well.
So, you can kind of get a little bit
more custom the way you want as well.
We've got the disabled ones.
They can't be focused.
So I can leave the focus class
on there and not worry about it.
Like we saw before, because I was changing
the opacity on hover, opacity on disabled
and background color on hover, but
these are now going for the same things.
You cannot focus a disabled field.
So I can build up this stack of classes.
And again, it's nice especially if you're
using it in like something like JSX or
svelte or view because you then you can
look at the component see everything very
clearly of what's going on and
change it all like kind of in one place.
And you don't end up like because we're
just working regulation now there will be
times where I make the same
change to four input fields.
That's a place where if I
didn't have a framework,
I might put it in that components layer or
that utilities.
I'll be very honest with you,
the most of the impetus of why I do these
days is when I'm sharing styles between
our Svelte app and our React app.
Generally speaking, if I was just in
one of those it doesn't come up for
me as much, right?
So if that kind of makes you feel
a little, I don't know about that,
don't worry about it, you'll be okay.
If you need it, you know you need it.
So we can also sell the placeholder text.
And again,
this all becomes super easy, right?
And because a lot of times in CSS,
sometimes the property names get some
really like funky names that is really
hard to remember it is kind of having
a little bit of a reset on naming
conventions because like CSS is old.
So it was JavaScript.
And having a little bit of
a reset there makes life easier.
So here I can actually style,
the kind of kind of color of
the placeholder text as well.
And there are a few
other things you can do.
And again, I would just encourage
you in these situations,
you can do stuff like,
[SOUND] input here, that's the check box.
Let's, we're playing
around some other stuff.
There was a question of like,
can you group a bunch of the variants?
And we found a blog post,
it made it seem like you could, but
it was one of those wish list blog posts,
so you can't.
But we looked it up, and so that said,
could one theoretically
put some plugins together?
Perhaps, should you?
I don't know.
So with place holder, no space.
There we go.
You can kind of see it looks mostly for
the point we've got all the colors.
I don't think there's a lot more you
can do with it in terms of the text
we'll talk about groups appears in
a little bit those are super cool.
But yeah and they also the caret,
so that's the it's
kind of hard to see these days but I can
style the actual blinking cursor as well.
So I can a little things that they kind of
make things a little bit nicer, right, and
they're all very very easy to do the other
one that I really like is this accent,
right, and so now it'll be purple
instead of gray on mine or
blue by default on MacOS I think you
can change it to other colors now.
Mine's always been gray forever.
But yeah, you can do these access to the
carets and the placeholders and the rings.
And it's very easy to like just string
these together and have them in place.
And they kind of, I think,
add that little extra layer that also
works on a radio button as well.
And then you can do interesting
things we saw on that list
before like invalid, right?
So this is an email, and so
now if there's something in there and
it's not valid, we can have it turn red,
so on and so forth.
And this is it's always
a little like squirrely though
because theoretically that's
the email is fine on that one.
If I put something not valid, it'll work.
It's required ones become interesting
because they they're instantly invalid
insofar that they're empty so
you have to begin to string it together.
So there's there's stuff you
can do along those lines.
You can also change the cursor,
all right, very easily.
If you look here it is simply
disabled cursor not allowed.
And again, with the IntelliSense
the nice part is you don't really
have to look anything up, right.
If I wanted to change the cursor
to something else, right, and
I can do it on basically any DOM node,
not just an input.
That's just where we've done it so far,
usually the right answer at that point
is just say, cursor and I can see all
the various different options that I have.
I look for other fun ones that I thought
might be nice to do but honestly,
they were all the most
straightforward one is not allowed.
Or if you wanna have something
that is acting like a button and
give it thought of clicky finger,
stuff along those lines.
Nobody really appreciates too much
innovation in changing their cursor on
them, right?
So I'll show you how to do it, but
please don't get carried away.
Technically, there's no reason
why you couldn't do it.
But as somebody who might use your app,
please don't.